I am Matsuo Basho from Iga City, Mie prefecture.
I was born at the beginning of the Edo period in
1644. I served a Todo Shinshichiro who was a
samurai general in charge of the Iga region.
During this period, I came into contact and grew
fond of haikai which is short form of poetry.
I broke from the service of the samurai family
and this awoke me to the freedom of the haikai
world as i set out on my new journey. At the
age of 28, I compiled an anthology of verses
in a book entitled the Shell Matching.
Later, I left for Edo, present-day Tokyo,
and evolved my own haikai style. That is known
by scholar as a style truly touches the hearts
of all people, regardless of era. which began
to reveal an entirely new world of haikai.
I began with the journey described in a journal
called Records of the Weather-Exposed Skeleton in
1684, followed by others, such as the Visit to the
Kashima Shrine and the Records of a Travel-Worn
Satchel. In 1689, I left to the northern provinces
of Honshu. It is this experience that provided
material for my famous work named The Narrow
Road to the Deep North. This experience made
me think in more philosophical terms about life,
travel and poetry. The Narrow Road to the Deep
North ended in Ogaki, Gifu prefecture, after
which I returned to my beloved home in Iga.
Three years later I set my mind once more on
traveling, and set out for Kyushu. However,
i became ill on the way, and died in Osaka on
1694at the age of 50. I hope my writings have
touched many hearts, and for you I say Every day
is a journey, and the journey itself is home.